source/dev-workflow.rst, before:

Workflow
********

.. highlight::

GitHub Flow
===========

We are using the GitHub Flow.  This is a 5 minute outline of the process:
`Understanding the GitHub Flow`_

This YouTube video has an excellent overview of the thinking behind the
process: `How GitHub Uses GitHub to Build GitHub by Zach Holman`_

We would like the pull request for all code to be reviewed by another member of
the team before the code is accepted into ``master`` and deployed.

Here are some notes which try and explain how we use the workflow:

Create a branch
---------------

Always create a branch for the piece of work you are doing next.  The branch
name should be separated with dashes and start with the ticket number from the
CRM system (for help with ``git`` branching, see `git branching`_)::

  git checkout -b 508-dev-workflow

Development
-----------

Do your development for this feature on this branch.  Commit and push as often
as you like e.g::

  # when you try a push the first time, you might be asked to set the origin
  git push --set-upstream origin 508-dev-workflow

Review
------

When you would like some help, or you are ready for the code to be reviewed,
then create a pull request on GitHub.


.. _`git branching`: https://www.pkimber.net/howto/git/branch.html
.. _`How GitHub Uses GitHub to Build GitHub by Zach Holman`: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qyz3jkOBbQY
.. _`Understanding the GitHub Flow`: https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/index.html

Commit message:

add to pull request notes

source/dev-workflow.rst, after:

Workflow
********

.. highlight::

GitHub Flow
===========

We are using the GitHub Flow.  This is a 5 minute outline of the process:
`Understanding the GitHub Flow`_

This YouTube video has an excellent overview of the thinking behind the
process: `How GitHub Uses GitHub to Build GitHub by Zach Holman`_

We would like the pull request for all code to be reviewed by another member of
the team before the code is accepted into ``master`` and deployed.

Here are some notes which try and explain how we use the workflow:

Create a branch
---------------

Always create a branch for the piece of work you are doing next.  The branch
name should be separated with dashes and start with the ticket number from the
CRM system (for help with ``git`` branching, see `git branching`_)::

  git checkout -b 508-dev-workflow

Development
-----------

Do your development for this feature on this branch.  Commit and push as often
as you like e.g::

  # when you try a push the first time, you might be asked to set the origin
  git push --set-upstream origin 508-dev-workflow

Review
------

When you would like some help, or you are ready for the code to be reviewed,
then create a pull request on GitHub.

Go to the repository.  I found a button saying *Compare and pull request* which
I clicked and filled in the details.

  You can add the user name to notify a particular user e.g. ``@pkimber``.


.. _`git branching`: https://www.pkimber.net/howto/git/branch.html
.. _`How GitHub Uses GitHub to Build GitHub by Zach Holman`: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qyz3jkOBbQY
.. _`Understanding the GitHub Flow`: https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/index.html
