source/dev-standards.rst, before:

Standards
*********

.. highlight:: python

This document is a **very** good starting point:
`Django models, encapsulation and data integrity`_

Dashboard
=========

.. note:: The ``dash`` app is generally for pages where the user has to be
          logged in.  Public pages will normally be in the ``web`` app.

Every project will have a dashboard.  The URL for this dashboard must be named
``project.dash`` e.g::

  url(regex=r'^$',
      view=HomeView.as_view(),
      name='project.dash'
      ),

An app can make it easy for a developer to add items to the dashboard by making
an ``<app-name>/_dash.html`` template e.g:

.. code-block:: html

  {% include 'cms/_dash.html' %}

See https://github.com/pkimber/cms/blob/master/cms/templates/cms/_dash.html for
an example.

Documentation
=============

From `PEP 257 - Docstring Conventions - Multi-line Docstrings`_::

  def complex(real=0.0, imag=0.0):
      """Form a complex number.

      Keyword arguments:
      real -- the real part (default 0.0)
      imag -- the imaginary part (default 0.0)
      """
      if imag == 0.0 and real == 0.0:
          return complex_zero

Icons
=====

http://fontawesome.io/icon/calendar/::

  usage         calendar/booking
  icon          <i class="fa fa-calendar"></i>

http://fontawesome.io/icon/cloud-download/::

  usage         download
  icon          <i class="fa fa-cloud-download"></i>

http://fontawesome.io/icon/reply/::

  usage         dash (back)
  icon          <i class="fa fa-reply"></i>

http://fontawesome.io/icon/pencil-square-o/::

  usage         edit
  icon          <i class="fa fa-edit"></i>

http://fontawesome.io/icon/external-link/::

  usage         external link
  icon          <i class="fa fa-external-link"></i>

http://fontawesome.io/icon/home/::

  usage         home
  icon          <i class="fa fa-home"></i>

http://fontawesome.io/icon/plus/::

  usage         add
  icon          <i class="fa fa-plus"></i>

Model
=====

The order of model inner classes and standard methods should be as follows
(these are not all required):

- All database fields
- Custom manager attributes
- ``class Meta``
- ``def __unicode__()``
- ``def __str__()``
- ``def save()``
- ``def get_absolute_url()``
- Any custom methods

Template
========

Tags
----

From `Two Scoops of Django`_, *the convention we follow is*
``<app_name>_tags.py`` e.g. ``cms_tags.py``.

URL
===

From `Coding Conventions`_::

  url(regex=r'^$',
      view=views.poll_list,
      name='poll_list',
  ),

... *the preferred and wonderfully explicit Jacob Kaplan-Moss / Frank Wiles
pattern*...

.. note:: Probably best to use the actual view class rather than just the name,
          using ``view='polls.views.standard.poll_list',``, makes it harder to
          debug on errors.


.. _`Coding Conventions`: https://django-party-pack.readthedocs.org/en/latest/conventions.html#using-the-url-function
.. _`Django models, encapsulation and data integrity`: http://www.dabapps.com/blog/django-models-and-encapsulation/
.. _`PEP 257 - Docstring Conventions - Multi-line Docstrings`: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0257/#multi-line-docstrings
.. _`Two Scoops of Django`: http://twoscoopspress.org/products/two-scoops-of-django-1-6

Commit message:

standards for the 'dash' and 'web' app - not a rule

source/dev-standards.rst, after:

Standards
*********

.. highlight:: python

This document is a **very** good starting point:
`Django models, encapsulation and data integrity`_

Dashboard
=========

.. note:: The ``dash`` app is generally for pages where the user has to be
          logged in.  Public pages will normally be in the ``web`` app.  This
          is not a hard and fast rule.  We will often want other apps where the
          user needs to be logged in.

Every project will have a dashboard.  The URL for this dashboard must be named
``project.dash`` e.g::

  url(regex=r'^$',
      view=HomeView.as_view(),
      name='project.dash'
      ),

An app can make it easy for a developer to add items to the dashboard by making
an ``<app-name>/_dash.html`` template e.g:

.. code-block:: html

  {% include 'cms/_dash.html' %}

See https://github.com/pkimber/cms/blob/master/cms/templates/cms/_dash.html for
an example.

Documentation
=============

From `PEP 257 - Docstring Conventions - Multi-line Docstrings`_::

  def complex(real=0.0, imag=0.0):
      """Form a complex number.

      Keyword arguments:
      real -- the real part (default 0.0)
      imag -- the imaginary part (default 0.0)
      """
      if imag == 0.0 and real == 0.0:
          return complex_zero

Icons
=====

http://fontawesome.io/icon/calendar/::

  usage         calendar/booking
  icon          <i class="fa fa-calendar"></i>

http://fontawesome.io/icon/cloud-download/::

  usage         download
  icon          <i class="fa fa-cloud-download"></i>

http://fontawesome.io/icon/reply/::

  usage         dash (back)
  icon          <i class="fa fa-reply"></i>

http://fontawesome.io/icon/pencil-square-o/::

  usage         edit
  icon          <i class="fa fa-edit"></i>

http://fontawesome.io/icon/external-link/::

  usage         external link
  icon          <i class="fa fa-external-link"></i>

http://fontawesome.io/icon/home/::

  usage         home
  icon          <i class="fa fa-home"></i>

http://fontawesome.io/icon/plus/::

  usage         add
  icon          <i class="fa fa-plus"></i>

Model
=====

The order of model inner classes and standard methods should be as follows
(these are not all required):

- All database fields
- Custom manager attributes
- ``class Meta``
- ``def __unicode__()``
- ``def __str__()``
- ``def save()``
- ``def get_absolute_url()``
- Any custom methods

Template
========

Tags
----

From `Two Scoops of Django`_, *the convention we follow is*
``<app_name>_tags.py`` e.g. ``cms_tags.py``.

URL
===

From `Coding Conventions`_::

  url(regex=r'^$',
      view=views.poll_list,
      name='poll_list',
  ),

... *the preferred and wonderfully explicit Jacob Kaplan-Moss / Frank Wiles
pattern*...

.. note:: Probably best to use the actual view class rather than just the name,
          using ``view='polls.views.standard.poll_list',``, makes it harder to
          debug on errors.


.. _`Coding Conventions`: https://django-party-pack.readthedocs.org/en/latest/conventions.html#using-the-url-function
.. _`Django models, encapsulation and data integrity`: http://www.dabapps.com/blog/django-models-and-encapsulation/
.. _`PEP 257 - Docstring Conventions - Multi-line Docstrings`: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0257/#multi-line-docstrings
.. _`Two Scoops of Django`: http://twoscoopspress.org/products/two-scoops-of-django-1-6
