source/fabric-deploy.rst, before:

Deploy
******

.. highlight:: bash

.. note::

  Before deploying your site, you need to release the code.  If you have not
  done this, check out the :doc:`fabric-release` instructions...

To deploy your project (in this example for the site ``hatherleigh_info``)::

  cd fabric
  fab site:hatherleigh_info deploy:0.0.19

Issues
======

lxml
----

Error when ``pip install lxml``::

  [drop-temp] out: gcc: internal compiler error: Killed (program cc1)

Check on the server to see if you ran out of memory::

  sudo -i

  drop-temp ~ # dmesg | tail
  [9840732.434057] Out of memory: Kill process 1405 (cc1) score 481 or sacrifice child
  [9840732.434579] Killed process 1405 (cc1) total-vm:281224kB, anon-rss:242024kB, file-rss:0kB

uwsgi
-----

Since switching to python 3, the uwsgi install using Salt appears to have some
issues::

  tail /var/log/nginx/error.log

To solve the problem:

  Run the ``highstate`` for a second time.  You should see ``0`` errors.

  Install your web project (so that ``uwsgi`` has something to do).

  Log into the minion as ``root``.

  Run ``supervisorctl`` and you will probably see that ``uwsgi`` ``Exited too
  quickly``.  Just ``start uwsgi`` and all should be well.

Commit message:

Update fabric-deploy doc for live and test prefixes

source/fabric-deploy.rst, after:

Deploy
******

.. highlight:: bash

.. note::

  Before deploying your site, you need to release the code.  If you have not
  done this, check out the :doc:`fabric-release` instructions...

To deploy your project to a test site (in this example for the site ``hatherleigh_info``)::

  cd fabric
  fab test:hatherleigh_info deploy:0.0.19

To deploy your project to a live site (in this example for the site ``hatherleigh_info``)::

  cd fabric
  fab live:hatherleigh_info deploy:0.0.19

Issues
======

lxml
----

Error when ``pip install lxml``::

  [drop-temp] out: gcc: internal compiler error: Killed (program cc1)

Check on the server to see if you ran out of memory::

  sudo -i

  drop-temp ~ # dmesg | tail
  [9840732.434057] Out of memory: Kill process 1405 (cc1) score 481 or sacrifice child
  [9840732.434579] Killed process 1405 (cc1) total-vm:281224kB, anon-rss:242024kB, file-rss:0kB

uwsgi
-----

Since switching to python 3, the uwsgi install using Salt appears to have some
issues::

  tail /var/log/nginx/error.log

To solve the problem:

  Run the ``highstate`` for a second time.  You should see ``0`` errors.

  Install your web project (so that ``uwsgi`` has something to do).

  Log into the minion as ``root``.

  Run ``supervisorctl`` and you will probably see that ``uwsgi`` ``Exited too
  quickly``.  Just ``start uwsgi`` and all should be well.
